README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://core-tcp-jenkins.excellalabs.com/buildStatus/icon?job=CORE-TCP%2Ftcp-java%2Fmaster)](https://core-tcp-jenkins.excellalabs.com/job/CORE-TCP/job/tcp-java/job/master/)
[![Coverage](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/api/project_badges/measure?project=tcp-java&metric=coverage)](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/dashboard?id=tcp-java)
[![Vulnerabilities](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/api/project_badges/measure?project=tcp-java&metric=vulnerabilities)](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/dashboard?id=tcp-java)


# tcp-java repository

A CRUD example using Spring WebFlux and Java 11

## Prerequisites

For local development, you will need:

1. [Git](www.git-scm.com)
    * **Windows Users** [You need to preserve Unix line endings on checkout](https://help.github.com/en/articles/configuring-git-to-handle-line-endings) because shells don't like carriage return. Run `git config --global core.autocrlf input`. Ideally you did this before cloning; if not, re-checkout after changing this setting. If you don't do this, git auto-converts LF to CRLF (\r) and the shell scripts will break if run locally.
1. [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (docker-compose)
    * Linux: It might be easiest just to use your package manager to install the `docker-compose` package. The official instructions can overly complicate it, and also leave off all but the most popular distros.
    * **Windows Users**: make sure you have Win 10 *Professional*, or you may not be able to install the latest Docker tools due to lack of Hyper-V support.
1. <u>JDK >= 11</u> for IDE tooling. To check for a suitable JDK, use `java -version`, making sure it is not a JRE. If you don't have one:
    * Linux: Install the latest OpenJDK package using your distro's package manager. Add the installed binary folder to your PATH and set JAVA_HOME, replacing references to any older JDKs, if the package didn't do it for you.
    * Mac (Homebrew): `brew cask install java`
    * Windows:  Install the [latest JDK](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html). Edit the system environment variables to add the binary folder to PATH and set JAVA_HOME, unless the installer does this for you.


Docker (Engine) version 18.09.8 is known to work;
docker-compose version 1.24.1 is known to work; docker-compose version 1.17.1 is known **not** to work.
Older versions may not support the docker-compose 3.7 file format, which this project uses.

You can check the installed versions with:
```bash
docker --version
docker-compose --version
```

## Quickstart
1. Install the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) above.
1. Clone this repository: `git clone git@github.com:excellaco/tcp-java.git`
1. Open a terminal in the root of the cloned project. <u>Windows users should open a Git Bash</u>, which comes with Git for Windows and GitHub Desktop.
1. Run `docker-compose run api bash`. Use this bash prompt for the next step.
1. Run `./generate-keystore`. It doesn't really matter what information you enter here.
1. Run `exit` once to drop out of the docker container.
1. Run `./start bootrun` and wait for the backend to start up (`75% EXECUTING` will display when it is up and running)
1. Go to http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html to see interactive API documentation.
1. Before you perform requests from Swagger, click the small lock icon and enter `user` / `pass`.

* Terminal or application complaining about \r characters? See the Windows warning under the Git prerequisite.

## Detailed Start and Development Setup

Windows users - as in the Quickstart, you should use Git Bash.

### Getting the code

There are two primary ways to pull the code for a standalone backend - a clone of this repository, and the XG tool.
In both cases, if you're on Windows *make sure you followed the [instructions](#prerequisites) about line endings above*. The XG tool may clone the repository under the hood, so the warning still applies.

#### Clone this repository

`git clone git@github.com:excellaco/tcp-java.git`

#### Using the "XG" Command-Line Interface (CLI)
  - Download and setup the [XG Tool, also known as TCP CLI](https://github.com/excellaco/xg#installation):
    this consists of a single binary which can be put in your PATH.
  - Copy the `xg.yaml` file from this repository to where you will run the CLI (you do not need to clone the entire repository)
  - Fill out the appropriate fields in `xg.yaml` with the desired values: (can quotes be used?)
    - projectName (directory)
    - ProjectName (for Gradle)
    - GroupName (for Gradle; typically "com.excella")
  - run `xg make`
    - Note: Your `xg` must be 0.2.1 (7/23/19) or later; `xg version` will show the installed version.
    - Note: if your private key for the tcp-java GitHub repo is not in `~/.ssh/id_rsa`, specify it with the '-i' or '--identity' flag:
      `xg make -i ~/.ssh/my_github_key` .  Failure to provide the correct private key will result in the error message `Error: Unable to clone repository remote`.
    - This will list a bunch of files and directories, prefixed with "F" for a file, "T" for a template, and "D" for a directory.
    - The result is in a subdirectory whose name is the same as the projectName you specified in `xg.yaml`.  Here we assume it's called my-project.
    - The result is *not* a Git workspace: there's no `.git` subdirectory.
  - Work around minor current `xg` limitations:
    - `cp -p xg.yaml my-project` # xg puts the version of xg.yaml as found in the repo under my-project

### Set up the application
This project uses OAuth2 and JWT for authentication / authorization.


[TODO: document the new generate-keystore script]

In order for the app to work correctly, you must create a Java KeyStore (.jks) file in the classpath (i.e., in src/main/resources).  There is a script to do this:

From the project root, run the following command:

`./generate-keystore`

It will ask you for a keystore filename (e.g. mytest.jks) and a keystore password.
It will create an .env file, then run `keytool`, which will ask you a bunch of questions.

Also, please ensure Flyway migrations are running. They include the DB setup for OAuth2 and Users. See the following for more information

In order for the app to work correctly, you must create a Java KeyStore (.jks) file in the classpath (i.e., in src/main/resources).  We have created a script for this purpose.

From the project root, run the following command(s):

1. `docker-compose run api bash` to get a session on a docker container with the project mounted.
2. `./generate-keystore`
3. `exit` once to drop out of the docker session.

The generate-keystore script is interactive. It will ask you for a keystore filename (e.g. mytest.jks) and a keystore password.
It will then create an .env file for you, then run `keytool` behind the scenes. This will prompt for several user inputs. You can enter dummy data, as this information will only be used in your local environment.

### Run the application


1. Compile the app: `./start clean build`
    * Note: if a script gives permission denied, you may need to run `chmod a+x script_name`
    * Note: if the build fails on the format check, run this and then try again: `./start goJF`. If this is a fresh checkout, go yell at whoever merged the format violations to master.
    * Note: if you get a lot of FileNotFoundException test failures, double check that you ran the `generate-keystore` script. There should be a .env file in the app's root directory and a \*.jks file in `src/main/resources`
1. Run the application: `./start bootrun`  (`75% EXECUTING` will display when it is up and running)
1. Navigate to:
	> http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html
1. Click the lock button to pop up a login prompt. The default credentials are `user` / `pass` .



##### 4. Run the application

- Compile the app: `./start clean build`
  - Note: if you don't want the fancy font coloring and status bars, you can do `./start --console plain clean build`
  - Note: if the build fails on the format check, run this and then try again: `./start goJF`
  - Note: if you get a lot of FileNotFoundException test failures, check that your keystore (`.jks`) file is in the CLASSPATH and is readable

- Run the application: `./start bootrun`

- Navigate to:
    > http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html

### Common Development Tasks


When the app is not running:

* Run the tests: `./start testNG`
* Run the linter: `./start verGJF`
* Auto-fix linter warnings (do this on the last commit before pushing!): `./start goJF`
* Run linter + tests + test report: `./test` (coverage report is generated under `build/jacocoHtml/index.html`)

### Setting up IntelliJ

- Install the Lombok Plugin

    1. Go to `File > Settings > Plugins`.
    2. Click on Browse repositories...
    3. Search for Lombok Plugin.
    4. Click on Install plugin.
    5. Restart IntelliJ IDEA.
    6. Ensure Annotation Processing is enabled `File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Compiler > Annotation Processors`. (IDEA may prompt you to do this)

- Import the project
    1. Select `Import Project`
    2. Select the directory where you cloned the repository
    3. Import as a gradle project and select a JDK >= 11
    4. Select to use the gradle wrapper configuration from the project

### Use OAuth to interact with the API (Cleanup TODO)

You can use OAuth to interact with the app's API from the command line:

While the app is running (`./start bootrun`), from the project root directory:

`./get-token`

This will ask the API at `localhost:8080` to create a bearer token, then store that token in a file called `token`.  The token file can be used with CURL to access the rest of the API, for example:
`curl -K token localhost:8080/api/employee/2`


### Tech Challenge Architecture

The Java repository represents one of the possible backends that can be used.

![Tech Challenge Architecture Diagram](architechture.png)

To connect a front-end application to the API, please see either the Angular or React tech challenge repositories.

  - [Angular Repository](https://github.com/excellaco/tcp-angular)
  - [React Repository](https://github.com/excellaco/tcp-react)

### Deployment to the ECS Cluster (Deprecated by Terraform / scripts? - TODO)

The Jenkinsfile deals with packaging the tcp-java-api application and deploying it to the ECS Cluster.

    If either of the above commands fails, try `ssh`ing into one of the cluster nodes, going to
    the tcp-java root directory, and running:
    `./get-token localhost:8080`
    `curl -K token localhost:8080/api/employee/2`
    If this succeeds, the problem is probably with the networking (ALB, Target Groups, Security Groups).

### Suggested Reading

#### Reactive Web Frameworks

[WebFlux](https://spring.io/guides/gs/reactive-rest-service/) is a reactive web framework for Spring. For more information on reactive design and its basic principles, we suggest looking at the [Reactive Manifesto](https://www.reactivemanifesto.org/).

For a more detailed guide to understanding how to handle reactive and functional types like `Mono` and `Flux`, please refer to our [Java Reactive Tutorial](https://github.com/excellalabs/reactive-in-java)

Commit message:

Clarify the quickstart instructions (#82)
The instructions mentioned that the data entered in the prompts from `./generate-keystore` didn't matter, but this led to several people leaving fields blank, which prevents the app from starting properly.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://core-tcp-jenkins.excellalabs.com/buildStatus/icon?job=CORE-TCP%2Ftcp-java%2Fmaster)](https://core-tcp-jenkins.excellalabs.com/job/CORE-TCP/job/tcp-java/job/master/)
[![Coverage](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/api/project_badges/measure?project=tcp-java&metric=coverage)](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/dashboard?id=tcp-java)
[![Vulnerabilities](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/api/project_badges/measure?project=tcp-java&metric=vulnerabilities)](http://sonarqube.excellalabs.com:9000/dashboard?id=tcp-java)


# tcp-java repository

A CRUD example using Spring WebFlux and Java 11

## Prerequisites

For local development, you will need:

1. [Git](www.git-scm.com)
    * **Windows Users** [You need to preserve Unix line endings on checkout](https://help.github.com/en/articles/configuring-git-to-handle-line-endings) because shells don't like carriage return. Run `git config --global core.autocrlf input`. Ideally you did this before cloning; if not, re-checkout after changing this setting. If you don't do this, git auto-converts LF to CRLF (\r) and the shell scripts will break if run locally.
1. [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (docker-compose)
    * Linux: It might be easiest just to use your package manager to install the `docker-compose` package. The official instructions can overly complicate it, and also leave off all but the most popular distros.
    * **Windows Users**: make sure you have Win 10 *Professional*, or you may not be able to install the latest Docker tools due to lack of Hyper-V support.
1. <u>JDK >= 11</u> for IDE tooling. To check for a suitable JDK, use `java -version`, making sure it is not a JRE. If you don't have one:
    * Linux: Install the latest OpenJDK package using your distro's package manager. Add the installed binary folder to your PATH and set JAVA_HOME, replacing references to any older JDKs, if the package didn't do it for you.
    * Mac (Homebrew): `brew cask install java`
    * Windows:  Install the [latest JDK](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html). Edit the system environment variables to add the binary folder to PATH and set JAVA_HOME, unless the installer does this for you.


Docker (Engine) version 18.09.8 is known to work;
docker-compose version 1.24.1 is known to work; docker-compose version 1.17.1 is known **not** to work.
Older versions may not support the docker-compose 3.7 file format, which this project uses.

You can check the installed versions with:
```bash
docker --version
docker-compose --version
```

## Quickstart
1. Install the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) above.
1. Clone this repository: `git clone git@github.com:excellaco/tcp-java.git`
1. Open a terminal in the root of the cloned project. <u>Windows users should open a Git Bash</u>, which comes with Git for Windows and GitHub Desktop.
1. Run `docker-compose run api bash`. Use this bash prompt for the next step.
1. Run `./generate-keystore`. It doesn't really matter what information you enter here as long as the fields are not left blank.
1. Run `exit` once to drop out of the docker container.
1. Run `./start bootrun` and wait for the backend to start up (`75% EXECUTING` will display when it is up and running)
1. Go to http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html to see interactive API documentation.
1. Before you perform requests from Swagger, click the small lock icon and enter `user` / `pass`.

* Terminal or application complaining about \r characters? See the Windows warning under the Git prerequisite.

## Detailed Start and Development Setup

Windows users - as in the Quickstart, you should use Git Bash.

### Getting the code

There are two primary ways to pull the code for a standalone backend - a clone of this repository, and the XG tool.
In both cases, if you're on Windows *make sure you followed the [instructions](#prerequisites) about line endings above*. The XG tool may clone the repository under the hood, so the warning still applies.

#### Clone this repository

`git clone git@github.com:excellaco/tcp-java.git`

#### Using the "XG" Command-Line Interface (CLI)
  - Download and setup the [XG Tool, also known as TCP CLI](https://github.com/excellaco/xg#installation):
    this consists of a single binary which can be put in your PATH.
  - Copy the `xg.yaml` file from this repository to where you will run the CLI (you do not need to clone the entire repository)
  - Fill out the appropriate fields in `xg.yaml` with the desired values: (can quotes be used?)
    - projectName (directory)
    - ProjectName (for Gradle)
    - GroupName (for Gradle; typically "com.excella")
  - run `xg make`
    - Note: Your `xg` must be 0.2.1 (7/23/19) or later; `xg version` will show the installed version.
    - Note: if your private key for the tcp-java GitHub repo is not in `~/.ssh/id_rsa`, specify it with the '-i' or '--identity' flag:
      `xg make -i ~/.ssh/my_github_key` .  Failure to provide the correct private key will result in the error message `Error: Unable to clone repository remote`.
    - This will list a bunch of files and directories, prefixed with "F" for a file, "T" for a template, and "D" for a directory.
    - The result is in a subdirectory whose name is the same as the projectName you specified in `xg.yaml`.  Here we assume it's called my-project.
    - The result is *not* a Git workspace: there's no `.git` subdirectory.
  - Work around minor current `xg` limitations:
    - `cp -p xg.yaml my-project` # xg puts the version of xg.yaml as found in the repo under my-project

### Set up the application
This project uses OAuth2 and JWT for authentication / authorization.


[TODO: document the new generate-keystore script]

In order for the app to work correctly, you must create a Java KeyStore (.jks) file in the classpath (i.e., in src/main/resources).  There is a script to do this:

From the project root, run the following command:

`./generate-keystore`

It will ask you for a keystore filename (e.g. mytest.jks) and a keystore password.
It will create an .env file, then run `keytool`, which will ask you a bunch of questions.

Also, please ensure Flyway migrations are running. They include the DB setup for OAuth2 and Users. See the following for more information

In order for the app to work correctly, you must create a Java KeyStore (.jks) file in the classpath (i.e., in src/main/resources).  We have created a script for this purpose.

From the project root, run the following command(s):

1. `docker-compose run api bash` to get a session on a docker container with the project mounted.
2. `./generate-keystore`
3. `exit` once to drop out of the docker session.

The generate-keystore script is interactive. It will ask you for a keystore filename (e.g. mytest.jks) and a keystore password.
It will then create an .env file for you, then run `keytool` behind the scenes. This will prompt for several user inputs. You can enter dummy data, as this information will only be used in your local environment.

### Run the application


1. Compile the app: `./start clean build`
    * Note: if a script gives permission denied, you may need to run `chmod a+x script_name`
    * Note: if the build fails on the format check, run this and then try again: `./start goJF`. If this is a fresh checkout, go yell at whoever merged the format violations to master.
    * Note: if you get a lot of FileNotFoundException test failures, double check that you ran the `generate-keystore` script. There should be a .env file in the app's root directory and a \*.jks file in `src/main/resources`
1. Run the application: `./start bootrun`  (`75% EXECUTING` will display when it is up and running)
1. Navigate to:
	> http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html
1. Click the lock button to pop up a login prompt. The default credentials are `user` / `pass` .



##### 4. Run the application

- Compile the app: `./start clean build`
  - Note: if you don't want the fancy font coloring and status bars, you can do `./start --console plain clean build`
  - Note: if the build fails on the format check, run this and then try again: `./start goJF`
  - Note: if you get a lot of FileNotFoundException test failures, check that your keystore (`.jks`) file is in the CLASSPATH and is readable

- Run the application: `./start bootrun`

- Navigate to:
    > http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html

### Common Development Tasks


When the app is not running:

* Run the tests: `./start testNG`
* Run the linter: `./start verGJF`
* Auto-fix linter warnings (do this on the last commit before pushing!): `./start goJF`
* Run linter + tests + test report: `./test` (coverage report is generated under `build/jacocoHtml/index.html`)

### Setting up IntelliJ

- Install the Lombok Plugin

    1. Go to `File > Settings > Plugins`.
    2. Click on Browse repositories...
    3. Search for Lombok Plugin.
    4. Click on Install plugin.
    5. Restart IntelliJ IDEA.
    6. Ensure Annotation Processing is enabled `File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Compiler > Annotation Processors`. (IDEA may prompt you to do this)

- Import the project
    1. Select `Import Project`
    2. Select the directory where you cloned the repository
    3. Import as a gradle project and select a JDK >= 11
    4. Select to use the gradle wrapper configuration from the project

### Use OAuth to interact with the API (Cleanup TODO)

You can use OAuth to interact with the app's API from the command line:

While the app is running (`./start bootrun`), from the project root directory:

`./get-token`

This will ask the API at `localhost:8080` to create a bearer token, then store that token in a file called `token`.  The token file can be used with CURL to access the rest of the API, for example:
`curl -K token localhost:8080/api/employee/2`


### Tech Challenge Architecture

The Java repository represents one of the possible backends that can be used.

![Tech Challenge Architecture Diagram](architechture.png)

To connect a front-end application to the API, please see either the Angular or React tech challenge repositories.

  - [Angular Repository](https://github.com/excellaco/tcp-angular)
  - [React Repository](https://github.com/excellaco/tcp-react)

### Deployment to the ECS Cluster (Deprecated by Terraform / scripts? - TODO)

The Jenkinsfile deals with packaging the tcp-java-api application and deploying it to the ECS Cluster.

    If either of the above commands fails, try `ssh`ing into one of the cluster nodes, going to
    the tcp-java root directory, and running:
    `./get-token localhost:8080`
    `curl -K token localhost:8080/api/employee/2`
    If this succeeds, the problem is probably with the networking (ALB, Target Groups, Security Groups).

### Suggested Reading

#### Reactive Web Frameworks

[WebFlux](https://spring.io/guides/gs/reactive-rest-service/) is a reactive web framework for Spring. For more information on reactive design and its basic principles, we suggest looking at the [Reactive Manifesto](https://www.reactivemanifesto.org/).

For a more detailed guide to understanding how to handle reactive and functional types like `Mono` and `Flux`, please refer to our [Java Reactive Tutorial](https://github.com/excellalabs/reactive-in-java)
